FLOW:

User
 ↓
DNS (Route53)
 ↓
AWS Load Balancer
 ↓
NGINX Ingress Controller
 ↓
 ├── Stable Service
 │      └── Stable Pods
 │
 └── Canary Service
        └── Canary Pods

1. Why do we use two deployments in Canary deployment?

We use two deployments to run two versions of the application:
Stable deployment → current production version
Canary deployment → new version that we want to test
This allows us to gradually expose users to the new version without affecting everyone.

2. Why do we use two services?

We create two services to separate stable and canary pods.
Stable service selects pods with label version: stable
Canary service selects pods with label version: canary
This separation allows the ingress controller to route traffic independently to each version.

If we used only one service, Kubernetes would randomly distribute traffic across all pods, and we would lose control over traffic splitting.

3. Why do we use two ingress resources?

We use two ingress resources because NGINX ingress implements canary deployment using annotations.
Primary ingress → routes normal traffic to the stable service
Canary ingress → routes a percentage of traffic to the canary service

The canary ingress contains annotations like:
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/canary: "true"
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/canary-weight: "15"

This means 15% of traffic goes to the canary version.

4. Does canary deployment create new pods automatically?

No. Canary deployment does not create new pods automatically.
Pod creation is controlled by the deployment replicas.
Ingress only splits the traffic between stable and canary services.

5. What happens if canary weight is set to 50?

If:
Stable replicas = 3
Canary replicas = 1
Canary weight = 50

Then:
50% traffic goes to the canary pod
50% traffic goes to the three stable pods
Traffic distribution is controlled by ingress weight, not by pod count.

6. How do we verify that canary deployment is working?

We can check the NGINX ingress controller logs.
Example command:
kubectl logs -n ingress-nginx <ingress-controller-pod>

kubectl logs ingress-nginx-controller-6f994997f7-dzk89 -n ingress-nginx | grep myapp-canary-service | wc -l #SHOWS CANARY HITS
kubectl logs ingress-nginx-controller-6f994997f7-dzk89 -n ingress-nginx | grep myapp-stable-service | wc -l #SHOWS STABLE HITS


In the logs we can see:
which service handled the request
which pod IP served the request

This confirms that traffic is being split between stable and canary services.

7. Can we use a Service of type LoadBalancer for Canary deployment?

Technically yes, we can use it, but it is not recommended for canary deployments.
If we use LoadBalancer services, each service will create a separate external load balancer and it causes below probelms.

Problems:
Two public endpoints
No traffic control
Higher cost
Hard to manage

8. Who creates the AWS Load Balancer in an Ingress architecture?

The AWS Load Balancer is created by the ingress controller service, which is typically of type LoadBalancer. 
Kubernetes automatically provisions an external load balancer in AWS and attaches it to the ingress controller. PFA flow chart.

9.Why do we use ClusterIP service when using Ingress?

We use ClusterIP because it provides a stable internal endpoint for the Ingress controller. Pods are dynamic and their IPs change frequently, 
so the service acts as an internal load balancer that routes traffic to the available pods while maintaining a single stable IP inside the cluster.
